=pod

=encoding utf8

=for colorscheme spectral9

=head1 Spec

This file contains one example for each feature that PODNG supports.

The spec is not 100% compatible with L<PseudoPOD|ftp://ftp.ora.com/pub/labs/pseudopod.html>,
but it follows it closely.

Key differences are:

=over 2

=item * PodNG supports CSS classes on almost all blocks by starting the text with one or more "::classname ".

These will not appear in the output. but instead be added as CSS class to the generated HTML tag.

=item * PodNG allows identifiers for tables, pictures, graphs, charts etc.

=item * PodNG supports variable replacement with VE<lt>E<gt> and B<=for var>

=item * PodNG adds TODO-lists with C<< =for todo >> and C<< =begin todo/=end todo >>.

=item * PodNG does not support HTML tables.

Instead all tables are defined with ASCII chars where "--" and "==" denote row-delimiters and " | " (not the spaces" are column delimiters.

=item * Index terms defined with XE<lt>E<gt> will also appear in the keywords or tags section

=item * ZE<lt>E<gt> is not neccessary if the block already has a name, like tables or figures or pictures, the AE<lt>E<gt> can just reference it. You can also add ZE<lt>E<gt> at the start of =headX etc.

=item * You can reference named blocks with LE<lt>#nameE<gt>

=item * C<< =begin figure/=end figure >> are not yet supported (use C<< =for figure ::class ID TITLE instead >>)

=item * Comments with C<< =for author >> etc. are not supported, comments should use C<< =for comment >>
=back

If you use a normal POD parser on this document, a few errors will appear,
due to the following things that the normal POD format does not support:

=over 2

=item * =head5

=item * =head6

=item * AE<lt>references to sections>

=item * ME<lt>first occuring terms>

=item * TE<lt>first occuring terms>

=item * UE<lt>first occuring terms>

=item * VE<lt>variable>

=item * Lists are not automatically renumbered

=item * CSS classes will appear in the output as ::classname

=item * Sub- and superscripts defined with _E<lt>E<gt> or ^E<lt>E<gt>

=item * Including of files with C<< =for include >> and C<< = for include-once >>

=item * Certain sections like:

=over 4

=item * todo

=item * table

=item * boxart

=item * sourcecode / code / listing / literal

=item * graph

=item * chart

=item * note

=item * blockquote E<amp> author

=back

=back

The next section should appear empty due to it only containing comments.

=head2 Comments only

=for comment This file contains one example for each feature that PODNG supports.

=begin comment

This is a multi-line comment,
spanning multiple lines.

=end comment

=head1 Headlines

=head2 Headline 2

=head3 Headline 3

=head4 Headline 4

=head5 Headline 5

=head6 Headline 6

=head1 Lists

List with over 2:

=over 2

=item * Some item 1

=item * Some item 2

=back

List with over 4:

=over 4

=item *

Some item 1
with more text.

=item *

Some item 3
with even more text.

=back

List with numbers (the numbering is done automatically):

=over 2

=item 1 Some number 1

=item 1 Some number 2

=item 1 Number 3

=back

=head2 Nested lists

=over

=item 1 Places to be

There are some places you really should be:

=over

=item 1 Parks

=item 1 Caves

=item 1 Cities

=back

=item 2 Things to eat

You could eat this things:

=over

=item 1 Nuts

=item 1 Cakes

=item 1 Bread

=back

=back

=head1 Escape Sequences

X<Keyword1> X<Keyword2>

B<Bold text> B<< more bold text >>

C<code text> C<< more code text >>

I<italic text> I<< more italic text >>

F<filename.txt> F<< another filename >>

E<lt> E<< amp >>

A first occuring M<term>, and another M<< one >>. You can also add M<Ding!|mouseover> texts.

T<A citation> T<< A longer citation >>

S<With  fixed  spacing> S<< more   fixed   witdh   spacing >>

Hyperlink: L<http://example.com> L<< ftp://ftp.example.com >>
Mailto: L<mailto:nouser@example.com> L<< mailto:nouser@example.com >>

URL: U<http://example.com> U<< ftp://ftp.example.com >>

Links with alternative text: L<Some Link|http://example.com/> L<< Some Link|ftp://example.com/ >>
Email with alternative text: L<My email|mailto:nouser@example.com> L<< email|mailto:nouser@example.com >>

Two references to the A<variables> (L<Variable substitution>) next section.

Subscript: H_<2>O
Superscript: MC^<2>

A footnote N<will appear>.

=head2 Variable substitution
Z<variables>

=for var VAR1 Variable

This is a V<VAR1>.

Formatting for replaceable things: C<< R<n> + 2 >> where R<n> is the number of loops.

=head2 Index creation

The term X<chicken> will appear in the keywords and in the index.

=head1 Tables

=begin table ::small table1 This text will appear in the table list.

  Headrow 1 | Headrow 2 | Headrow 3
=====================================
  Col 1     | Col 2     | Col 3
-------------------------------------
  Col 1     | Col 2     | Col 3
  (a)       | (b)       | (c)
-------------------------------------
-------------------------------------
  Col 1
-------------------------------------
-------------------------------------
-------------------------------------
  Col 1     | Col 2     | Col 3
=====================================
  Headrow 1 | Headrow 2 | Headrow 3
-------------------------------------
  Col 1     | Col 2     | Col 3

=end table

A link to the table A<above|table1>.

=head1 Sections

The following different sections are supported:

=head2 Blockquote

=begin blockquote ::gray somequote

The internet is for corn.

=for author Gronkh

=end blockquote

=head2 Note

=begin note somenote

Remember to buy milk!

=end note

=head2 Sourcecode

=begin sourcecode ::perl somequote

#!/usr/bin/perl -w

use strict;

print "1 + 2 = ", (1+2), "\n";

=end

=head1 Colors

Some text in F<::clr1 color 1>, F<::clr2 color 2>, F<::clr3 color 3>

Some text with F<::bg1 background 1>, F<::bg2 background 2>, F<::bg3 background 3>, F<::bg4 background 4>

The following section will have different colors than the main document:

=for colorscheme set37

=head2 Head 2

=head3 Head 3

A L<hyperlink|http://example.com>.

Some text in F<::clr1 color 1>, F<::clr2 color 2>, F<::clr3 color 3>

Some text with F<::bg1 background 1>, F<::bg2 background 2>, F<::bg3 background 3>, F<::bg4 background 4>

=cut
